---
title: "My Turn: The Autobiography of Johan Cruyff"
description: "The author of the book: Johan Cruyff"
author: Nikita Goncharenko
date: 2022-04-18T16:35:14.891Z
tags:
  - post
image: /assets/blog/img_6065.jpeg
imageAlt: Book cover of My Turn by Johan Cruyff
---
## Citations:

> * *"**If you do fitness training, it is You who is doing it**. For me, two things are important: in principle, **your players have to be able to play 120 minutes and they've got to have a laugh**. I am not a policeman, I am nothing. But if you can't work it out for yourself, I've got to find someone else who is capable of doing that."*
> * *"The third man decides where the ball goes. ... It is not the person with the ball who decides where the ball goes. **Players without the ball determines the action**."*
> * *"Different posts require different qualities: a youth trainer must be able to bring people on. The great danger during that 'bringing on' is that the youth trainer will just break the players' old habits rather than polishing up the new talent. An example, **if you've got someone who dribbles too much, you do not stop him from dribbling. Instead, you put him up against big, physically strong opponent**. If he subjected few crunching tackles, he will soon learn all by himself that he's got to pass the ball. And of course, boys in early adolescence need a different approach from young men of 16-17 who are on the threshold of the first team. You can't just a youth trainer on them. Similarly, you can't appoint any head coach. The trainer must be a good fit for the club. **The club that's at the top or in the mid-table or at the bottom often require three totally different types of trainers**."*
> * *"Top level football is about Technique, Tactics, Training, and Finance."*
> * *"The analysis of a detail in the top-level football is the hardest thing of all. The ability to analyse the whole thing in such a way that you can grab victory not through the move itself but sometimes 2-3 moves before.**How is the ball received? And how is it played on? Did it require one touch or two? How good was the receiving player's control?** Then you also have to deal with the defender. Someone who plays in a good squad is incline to relax a bit against weak teams. Then the tempo comes down and the balls do not arrive or arrive too late. It's 'details like that' that you have to be able to see."*
>
>
> * *"**At least 2 players are involved in any move**. But too much attention is put to how they play individually when it's really about how they play together."*
> * *"Also, **the physical and mental condition of players is always subordinate to 'football'**. Of course, they both need to be considered. But always from the point of view of football. If someone is off-form, start with their football before to analyse them mentally. Because if the football is good, there is so much positive energy generated: the mental and physical sides might well seized to be a problem. **Thing back to when you were a child. When you played football after a long day of school, did you get tired? - No! You just slept well that night.**"*
> * *".. football to remain under the control of footballers. **From the pitch upwards, right to the boardroom.** Maybe it's a bit primitive but that's just how I think. And that's why I've clashed with directors so often. They want to decide what happens on the pitch from the boardroom, while I think that people on the pitch should determine what the directors do. Directors always take 2nd place, as far as I am concerned. What I've almost always noticed about them is that they have a **Top-Down attitude. As I mentioned, people who think in that way often feel superior and compelled to convince others that they are right**. If instead, they think Bottom-Upwards, they come across things that they are not used to and the roles are switched. Rather than the directors explaining something to you, you have to explain it to them. And that's usually where the problem start. They think you are talking non-sense because they've never learned it this way themselves. What directors don't understand is that thinking in terms of football is the essence of what we do and why people love the game."*
> * *"It is also important to see how you can make teammates play well and your opponent play badly. So, for example, you can help teammate by passing the ball to his stronger foot. This might seem simple, even unimportant. But **in a good team, you do not often see a left-footed player receiving the ball on his right foot**. **Similarly, when you know that the player you are marking prefers to go around you one way, position yourself such that he is forced to go the other way with the ball on his weaker foot**. This all might seem elementary. But, unfortunately, even at the highest level we see players, and even coaches, hardly thinking about things such as these."*
> * *"The difference between good and bad player's technique is '**Agility'.**"*
> * *"The most important thing for a player is that he knows how to do the simple actions. I mean: **passing, receiving, controlling the ball with his chest, being able to use his weaker foot, and heading**, in short, the basic techniques. These are all skills that anyone can be trained in. **Learning to pass the ball correctly is simply a matter of repeating it over and over**. This might be boring. But you are honing the most essential aspect of the game. The same goes for receiving the ball. It is tedious to do. But you make a quick progress. Then you have to combine these basic techniques with positional play."*