---
title: 'Book Review: "The Mixer"'
description: "Book written by: Michael Cox"
author: Nikita Goncharenko
date: 2022-04-10T13:04:16.255Z
tags:
  - post
image: /assets/blog/the-mixer.jpeg
imageAlt: Book cover of The Mixer
---
## Ideas I take from the book:

Alex Ferguson brought into football the idea that **one player could play at different positions**. Van Nistelrooy was the last example of a player who could only play at one position: central forward. After Robin was sold, Ferguson had only players with versatile functionalities on the field.

Fulham was one of the first football clubs that started actively **utilising analytics in football**. Their head coach travelled to the USA and was impressed by amount of staff that support professional sports teams, particularly in American football. After returning, he established an analytical department in Fulham, as well as nutrition and physical coaches, that helped to excel the performances of the first team. After all, Fulham was mocked for having more coaches than players.

Both, Rafael Benitez and Jose Mourinho, have never been football players. Thus, they were often blamed to place all their football ambitions into coaching. Systems that both coaches were building **required players to be less individually smart and more of a "chess pawn"**. *To be mentioned here that Rafael Benitez has been a big fan of chess.*

Scouting turned the game into more complex theoretical model.

Stoke City became famous for their innovative idea of using throw-ins, as part of set-pieces tactics. For example, they were the first to use throw-ins, like corners. Once their was a case of opponent's goalkeeper who preferred to give away the corner-kick to Stoke City than the throw-in. *To be mentioned here, "**The Mixer**" is the concept which refers to situations in which players populate the space in front of opponents' goals during corners & throw-ins. In a way, it **is a mix of players in front of goals**.*

Inverted Winger - the concept that is compared to Wide Winger. Inverted wingers aim at making "in-field" movements. Traditionally, wingers would move the ball forward the vertical line with the key goal to cross inside the mixer. **The inverted winger, however, would hope to advance diagonally, crossing vertical lines of the field**. For example, Gareth Bale originally was playing, as a wide midfielder. Later, he would change towards dribbling inside the field and making a direct shot.

Before becoming a head coach, **Brendan Rodgers spent his weekends flying to Barcelona** and watching games of junior teams of La Masia teams. He was also studying Spanish. He like the gameplay and he wanted to learn how to set this gameplay for his teams. As the result, he was successfully coaching Swansey for several seasons. **Particular feature of his Swansey was the ability to defend by keeping the ball possession for long periods of time**.

The key feature of Gegenpressing (counter-pressing) is the immediate pressing after the ball possession is lost. The traditional pressing is a different principle, which refers to the moment when the ball is located at the advanced areas. Both Mauricio Pochettino and Andre Vilash Boash preferred traditional pressing. Their teams were pressing high by lifting up the defensive line and decreasing the spaces for passing channels for opponents.

## Citations:

> * *"If you do zonal marking, the system gets the blame. If you individual marking, the player gets the blame".*
> * *"More than anything it felt like their shapes were more "Top-Down" than "Bottom-Up", whereas in Manchester United (\*under Ferguson) and Arsenal (\*under Wenger), it was Bottom-Up."* - sentence about Mourinho and Benitez. 

## References to External sources discussed in the book:

* [UEFA Coefficient System by Country](https://www.uefa.com/nationalassociations/uefarankings/country/#/yr/2022)
* Next Book to Read: [Soccernomics](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6617185-soccernomics)